Individual Capstone Assessment
Samantha Shaw
Team: Slay
 
The senior design project that my team decided to do is to create collaborative music queuing web app that is targeted to be used in a get-together or party setting. Our team came up with the idea through our own experiences at gatherings with friends and family. We thought this would be a useful product that we think we could expand beyond the requirements of senior design later. Through this senior design project, we will be able to showcase the skills and experiences that we have gathered throughout our years here at UC. Personally, I think the senior design project is aimed at preparing us for work upon graduation as it requires great cooperation. In my opinion, teamwork is the most important skill that is involved in this project as we will be working with the same team members for a year, mimicking working with a team in a company.
This senior design project will showcase the technical and soft skills that we have obtained through our years here at UC. The courses I took that I think would help me in the development of this project are Data Structures (CS 2028C), Requirements Engineering (CS 5127), and Software Test & QA (EECE 5132). From data structures, I gained knowledge about how to store and organize data effectively and efficiently. This will be a core skill needed for our project as it deals with a list of songs that needs to be queued. Requirements engineering will help me understand the stakeholders’ needs and desires, create great requirements, and ensure the focus of our development process is to satisfy the stakeholders’ needs and desires. Software tests & QA will give me knowledge about how to test software in an agile methodology and how to test the software. Testing skills would be required for our collaborative project to ensure a change that one of our team members made did not affect the performance of our software.
I worked at Fox Sports as a front-end software developer co-op for 3 rotations and 1 as a quality assurance co-op. Then, I worked as an Android mobile-app developer at Victoria’s Secret & Co. for my last co-op rotation. I was grateful to have experienced working in an agile environment for all my co-op rotations, so I have gained an understanding of agile methodology application in the real world. I also learned how to communicate clearly with people within or outside of my teams in all my co-ops. Working in an agile environment as a software developer taught me how to predict my work capacity in each sprint. I also had experience working as a QA tester, so I gained an understanding of how to create and run test automation. With my experience in agile, I am hoping to apply this methodology to our senior design project.
I am excited to be working on this project because I can see myself using the product that we will develop and perhaps continue working on it after senior design to add more features. We have started setting up our Jira board to keep track of our tasks and we also started planning the design of our product. I am excited to be using all the tools such as Jira, Confluence, and Figma for our project which will be useful for full-time work soon. I do not have much experience with Figma, so I am using the senior design project as an opportunity for me to gain more knowledge about UI/UX design and grow to be a better developer. My personal approach to creating a technical solution is to start by creating a clear set of acceptance criteria, develop the feature, and then test the feature against the acceptance criteria. If there were any issues with the team members, I will make sure to communicate and try to resolve the issue calmly to avoid any conflict.
Through the senior design project, I am expecting to end the school year with a working product. I want to be able to share the product for friends and family to use and provide feedback. If we were not able to release a working product by the end of our senior year, I hope we are able to keep on track with our development process and continue working on it even after graduation. I will evaluate my own contributions through the number of tickets that I can complete in each sprint and the quality of code that I push each time. I will also ask my teammates for feedback on my coding style and will adjust it according to their comments. Lastly, I will determine whether I did a good job or not by keeping track of how many bugs detected were related to the work I did.

