Individual Capstone Assessment
Lina Kaval
Team: Slay

My team will be creating a Spotify song queue web application. This will look like a simple mobile-friendly website where multiple users can add songs to the shared queue. The host would be able to control the music. The idea for this project came from our struggles when we hang out – only one person would be able to control the music because of the way Spotify works. We wanted a way for multiple users to add to the song queue without having to tell the host to manually add the song. The core functionality will be creating the song queue, but we would also like to add some features such as being able to upvote songs in the queue or suggest songs to add to the user, if time permits. I will be mostly working on the backend, as I like working with databases and APIs. 
The coursework that are relevant to my project are Database Design and Development (CS4092), Python Programming (CS2021), Software Engineering (EECE3093), and Technical & Scientific Writing (ENGL4092). The CRUD and database knowledge from CS4092 will help with the design of our backend. We learned CS4092 in mysql, which we are considering using as our database system. We intend on using Flask in our backend, which will be written in Python; this is where CS2021 knowledge will be used. We are using agile as our development framework, which is a topic we covered in EECE3093. Finally, ENGL4092 will be relevant because documenting our senior design project is a big part of this course, so we will be applying the written communication skills gained from that class.
My coop experiences have provided me with the specific technical knowledge and the soft skills necessary to succeed in my senior design project. As a web developer coop at MZA Associates, I worked in Angular and Flask, which are the main technologies we will be using for our project. I also have advanced Python knowledge in database server connections and using APIs as a Research Analyst coop at Ellington Management Group. In terms of soft skills, I have had to deliver code based on deadlines set by my manager and team – this will help me stay on track with the work I have to do for senior design. My written communication skills also improved on coop, through the creation of various documents, emails, and presentations, so I hope to use that in my senior design project. I also have had experiences working both individually and on a team during my coops, so I am comfortable taking on work by myself as well as working together with my teammates.
I am excited to work on this project because I have already worked with the Spotify API in past personal projects and love music. I am also excited to work with my best friends as my teammates. I can trust that they will deliver on their work and we will be able to resolve issues without holding grudges. We also have similar, but different backgrounds – all of us have had web development experience, with two of us having used Angular. We are all familiar with agile, so we can follow our sprints and track our progress. I am also glad that Dr. McFall agreed to our advisor. He is someone who has been a mentor to me, and I trust that he will give valuable feedback where we need it.
Our preliminary approach to designing the Spotify Queue app is to identify the basic functionalities we need. We have identified certain functions, such as adding and deleting songs off the queue, as things we must implement. The expected result is that we would have a working app for queuing and controlling what songs are played, or as close to working as we can achieve. I also would like for everyone on the team to gain knowledge from another team member and learn something new. I plan to self-evaluate my contributions by following our sprint board, getting feedback from my team and advisor, and making sure I reach a level where I feel proud of the work we accomplished. Personally, if we can accomplish the basic functionalities and one of our additional features, I will feel like we did a good job. 
