This senior design capstone project is all about a culmination of five years of learning coming together. Different perspectives coming into this project will show what these years can contribute from three people who followed the same path in unique ways. This project will showcase skills learned through coop and class work and is an outlier in these five years. Not only is it the biggest project but because it's something that has been nerve racking since learning about it. Getting started on it has already put knowledge, skills, and experience to the test.	
Through classes, I learned the value of starting small and working on simple code applications and problems to learn a language. Intro to Python taught me that complicated aspects of code don’t always have to be complicated. I learned how to problem solve and especially how to start small. Recursion was especially tricky for me coming into this class but breaking it down into smaller steps and working through it made me learn a new way to problem solve. Data Structures taught me more critical thinking skills and made me think about code more in terms of efficiency and how to make code more efficient. Data structures work best when they are not only correctly coded but coded to be as efficient as possible. This can be as simple as choosing the right data structure to use for a particular situation. Learning these structures made me think critically and made me a better developer. 
Coop is really where I learned the bulk of my skills that are making this project run smoothly. Working at Lubrizol where I held IT focused roles like Telecommunications Coop did not help me much with learning code or working with project management tools. It did open doors for me as my first coop however and helped me learn better soft skills by talking to new people in my industry and learning the workflow of a technical role. After being at Lubrizol for three rotations I switched coops and started working at LCS first as a Quality Assurance Engineer then as a Software Developer. Working at LCS is what really propelled me forward into software development. Working as a QA I was able to work alongside developers and follow an agile methodology at work. I learned more technical terms and workflows and is the groundwork for how this project was set up. My second rotation I worked as a software developer. In that role I continued to be a part of the agile workflow however I also learned how to code in an enterprise application. I learned more advanced concepts such as working inside a front-end framework, communicating with and API, and different operations built into JavaScript and TypeScript. 
This project means a lot to me because it will show what I have really learned and prove that I am ready to go into this field confidently. I have had random motivation to start projects and they always fade before they really get started. I want to see this project through and structure it in a way that will keep me on track and working. After getting development experience at LCS I have been missing it with class work. Now I get to not only keep that feeling going but I also get to share this experience with two friends. Getting to work with Sam and Lina on this project is awesome because they are smart and hardworking people that I am confident will deliver a great project in the end. 
Coming into this project my experience tugged me toward doing a web-based application. I have experience in that area, and it would be easiest for me to get started there and build after that. For the last few months, I had thought of an idea to make an app that would allow people to queue songs up at parties instead of always wondering who has control of the music and asking around, it would be convenient to just add a song to the queue and forget about it. In the end I expect this project to be up and running on a cloud server and being able to be used at multiple houses at the same time. In the very end it would be a cool application to run for having people over at my house and knowing that I was able to create something usable and convenient. All contributions will be tracked through Jira and GitHub, but my personal measure will be based on how smoothly this project runs. I have the most experience inside of agile workflows and I want to keep this project running smoothly and comfortably. 
